[Congressional Record Volume 166, Number 132 (Monday, July 27, 2020)]
[House]
[Pages H3873-H3878]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
COMMISSION ON THE SOCIAL STATUS OF BLACK MEN AND BOYS ACT
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (S. 2163) to establish the Commission on the Social Status of
Black Men and Boys, to study and make recommendations to address social
problems affecting Black men and boys, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 2163
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ``Commission on the Social
Status of Black Men and Boys Act''.
SEC. 2. COMMISSION ESTABLISHMENT AND MEMBERSHIP.
(a) Establishment.--The Commission on the Social Status of
Black Men and Boys (hereinafter in this Act referred to as
``the Commission'') is established within the United States
Commission on Civil Rights Office of the Staff Director.
(b) Membership.--The Commission shall consist of 19 members
appointed as follows:
(1) The Senate majority leader shall appoint one member who
is not employed by the Federal Government and is an expert on
issues affecting Black men and boys in America.
(2) The Senate minority leader shall appoint one member who
is not employed by the Federal Government and is an expert on
issues affecting Black men and boys in America.
(3) The House of Representatives majority leader shall
appoint one member who is not employed by the Federal
Government and is an expert on issues affecting Black men and
boys in America.
(4) The House of Representatives minority leader shall
appoint one member who is not employed by the Federal
Government and is an expert on issues affecting Black men and
boys in America.
(5) The Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus shall be a
member of the Commission, as well as 5 additional Members of
the Congressional Black Caucus who shall be individuals that
either sit on the following committees of relevant
jurisdiction or are experts on issues affecting Black men and
boys in the United States, including--
(A) education;
(B) justice and Civil Rights;
(C) healthcare;
(D) labor and employment; and
(E) housing.
(6) The Staff Director of the United States Commission on
Civil Rights shall appoint one member from within the staff
of the United States Commission on Civil Rights who is an
expert in issues relating to Black men and boys.
(7) The Chair of the United States Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission shall appoint one member from within
the staff of the United States Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission who is an expert in equal employment issues
impacting Black men.
(8) The Secretary of Education shall appoint one member
from within the Department of Education who is an expert in
urban education.
(9) The Attorney General shall appoint one member from
within the Department of Justice who is an expert in racial
disparities within the criminal justice system.
(10) The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
appoint one member from within the Department of Health and
Human Services who is an expert in health issues facing Black
men.
(11) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall
appoint one member from within the Department of Housing and
Urban Development who is an expert in housing and development
in urban communities.
(12) The Secretary of Labor shall appoint one member from
within the Department of Labor who is an expert in labor
issues impacting Black men.
(13) The President of the United States shall appoint 2
members who are not employed by the Federal Government and
are experts on issues affecting Black men and boys in
America.
(c) Membership by Political Party.--If after the Commission
is appointed there is a partisan imbalance of Commission
members, the congressional leaders of the political party
with fewer members on the Commission shall jointly name
additional members to create partisan parity on the
Commission.
SEC. 3. OTHER MATTERS RELATING TO APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
(a) Timing of Initial Appointments.--Each initial
appointment to the Commission shall be made no later than 90
days after the Commission is established. If any appointing
authorities fail to appoint a member to the Commission, their
appointment shall be made by the Staff Director of the
Commission on Civil Rights.
(b) Terms.--Except as otherwise provided in this section,
the term of a member of the Commission shall be 4 years. For
the purpose of providing staggered terms, the first term of
those members initially appointed under paragraphs (1)
through (5) of section 2 shall be appointed to 2-year terms
with all other terms lasting 4 years. Members are eligible
for consecutive reappointment.
(c) Removal.--A member of the Commission may be removed
from the Commission at any time by the appointing authority
should the member fail to meet Commission responsibilities.
Once the seat becomes vacant, the appointing authority is
responsible for filling the vacancy in the Commission before
the next meeting.
(d) Vacancies.--The appointing authority of a member of the
Commission shall either reappoint that member at the end of
that member's term or appoint another person meeting the
qualifications for that appointment. In the event of a
vacancy arising during a term, the appointing authority
shall, before the next meeting of the Commission, appoint a
replacement to finish that term.
SEC. 4. LEADERSHIP ELECTION.
At the first meeting of the Commission each year, the
members shall elect a Chair and a Secretary. A vacancy in the
Chair or Secretary shall be filled by vote of the remaining
members. The Chair and Secretary are eligible for consecutive
reappointment.
SEC. 5. COMMISSION DUTIES AND POWERS.
(a) Study.--
(1) In general.--The Commission shall conduct a systematic
study of the conditions affecting Black men and boys,
including homicide rates, arrest and incarceration rates,
poverty, violence, fatherhood, mentorship, drug abuse, death
rates, disparate income and wealth levels, school performance
in all grade levels including postsecondary education and
college, and health issues.
(2) Trends.--The Commission shall document trends regarding
the topics described in paragraph (1) and report on the
community impacts of relevant government programs within the
scope of such topics.
(b) Proposal of Measures.--The Commission shall propose
measures to alleviate and remedy the underlying causes of the
conditions described in subsection (a), which may include
recommendations of changes to the law, recommendations for
how to implement related policies, and recommendations for
how to create, develop, or improve upon government programs.
(c) Suggestions and Comments.--The Commission shall accept
suggestions or comments pertinent to the applicable issues
from members of Congress, governmental agencies, public and
private organizations, and private citizens.
(d) Staff and Administrative Support.--The Office of the
Staff Director of the United States Commission on Civil
Rights shall provide staff and administrative support to the
Commission. All entities of the United States Government
shall provide information that is otherwise a public record
at the request of the Commission.
SEC. 6. COMMISSION MEETING REQUIREMENTS.
(a) First Meeting.--The first meeting of the Commission
shall take place no later than 30 days after the initial
members are all appointed. Meetings shall be focused on
significant issues impacting Black men and boys, for the
purpose of initiating research ideas and delegating research
tasks to Commission members to initiate the first annual
report described in section 7.
(b) Quarterly Meetings.--The Commission shall meet
quarterly. In addition to all quarterly meetings, the
Commission shall meet at other times at the call of the Chair
or as determined by a majority of Commission members.
(c) Quorum; Rule for Voting on Final Actions.--A majority
of the members of the Commission constitute a quorum, and an
affirmative vote of a majority of the members present is
required for final action.
(d) Expectations for Attendance by Members.--Members are
expected to attend all Commission meetings. In the case of an
absence, members are expected to report to the Chair prior to
the meeting and allowance may be made for an absent member to
participate remotely. Members will still be responsible for
fulfilling prior commitments, regardless of attendance
status. If a member is absent twice in a given year, he or
she will be reviewed by the Chair and appointing authority
and further action will be considered, including removal and
replacement on the Commission.
(e) Minutes.--Minutes shall be taken at each meeting by the
Secretary, or in that individual's absence, the Chair shall
select another Commission member to take minutes during that
absence. The Commission shall make its minutes publicly
available and accessible not later than one week after each
meeting.
SEC. 7. ANNUAL REPORT GUIDELINES.
The Commission shall make an annual report, beginning the
year of the first Commission meeting. The report shall
address the current conditions affecting Black men and boys
and make recommendations to address these issues. The report
shall be submitted to the President, the Congress, members of
the President's Cabinet, and the chairs of the appropriate
committees of jurisdiction. The Commission shall make the
report publicly available online on a centralized Federal
website.
SEC. 8. COMMISSION COMPENSATION.
Members of the Commission shall serve on the Commission
without compensation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Brown of Maryland). Pursuant to the
rule, the gentlewoman from Georgia (Mrs. McBath) and the gentleman from
North Dakota (Mr. Armstrong) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Georgia.
[[Page H3874]]
General Leave
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and
include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentlewoman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, today, we remember the life and legacy of Congressman
John Lewis. We mourn his passing, but we celebrate his incalculable
contributions to our country. The world is truly a better place because
John dedicated his life to make it so.
I rise in front of this Chamber as we vote to create the commission
on the social status of Black men and boys. This commission is only
possible because of the barriers broken by Black men like John Lewis.
It is only possible because of the tireless efforts of Black women like
Congresswoman Frederica Wilson, who has led the introduction of this
bill.
The world has changed for Black men and boys in this country since
John Lewis was beaten and bloodied on a bridge in Selma, Alabama. We
have come a long way, but it is no secret that Black men and boys
continue to face unjust hurdles in America. The commission will search
for ways to address these inequities, from education to unemployment,
housing to healthcare, justice to civil rights.
As John once said: We have a moral obligation, a mission, and a
mandate to do what we can to make our country and our world a better
place and to help usher in a loving community where no one is left out
or left behind.
I believe this commission will help us do just that. I believe that
it will help us create a better future for our children and for our
grandchildren because while we have come so far, we still have a long
way to go.
I know that you can do everything right as a parent and still see
your child, a young Black man, taken away from you for reasons that are
far out of your control.
When I got pregnant with my son, Jordan, he was a miracle for me. I
wasn't sure I was ever going to be able to have children. I dreamed of
who Jordan would become. I dreamed of watching him walk across the
stage at his high school graduation, full of love and full of hope for
the future.
But almost 8 years ago, Jordan was sitting in the back seat of a car
with his friends at a gas station. A man pulled up, parked next to
them, and complained about the loud music that they were playing. He
pulled out a gun, and he fired 10 shots into the car, hitting Jordan
three times, killing my only son. And then, he simply drove away.
I believed I had done everything right, but at the end of the day,
Jordan was a young Black man. And I felt that injustice.
So while I look back at the life and legacy of John Lewis, and I
remark how far we truly have come, I must also look toward a future
without my son, and I see how far we still have to go.
As we vote today to create the commission on the social status of
Black men and boys, I hope we can go forward in strength and in hope
because there is always hope. It is what brings us together.
We can work toward a future that we all believe in, and I am proud to
take the next step on that journey today. I urge my colleagues to stand
with me in supporting this bipartisan bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
{time}  1100
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 2163, the Commission on the
Social Status of Black Men and Boys Act.
I want to thank Senator Rubio for his leadership on this bill in the
Senate and Representative Wilson for her leadership in the House. I
want to say a special thanks to my friend, Congresswoman McBath, for
utilizing such a personal and tragic story toward a positive outcome.
It is great to be here with the gentlewoman this morning.
This bill establishes a commission within the U.S. Commission on
Civil Rights dedicated to studying conditions and disparities that both
Black men and boys face. The commission will study issues such as
arrest and incarceration rates, poverty, homicide, school performance,
disparate income levels, and health issues.
Congressional leadership, the President, and the executive agencies
will appoint at least 19 members to serve on this bipartisan
commission. Those members are charged with developing policy
recommendations, documenting trends, and issuing an annual report aimed
at reducing the adversity confronting Black men and boys across this
Nation. These reports and recommendations will assist Congress and the
rest of the Federal Government in creating policies to address these
issues. The bill mandates political parity among the members of the
commission in an effort to reduce the potential for political
partisanship and bias.
Our founding document, the Declaration of Independence, declares that
all men are created equal, and the eastern facade of the Supreme Court
pronounces equal justice under the law. However, we all know inequality
still exists. As a defense attorney, I saw how sentencing disparities
on drug crimes, minimum mandatory sentencing, school zone sentencing
enhancements, and pretrial release policies often had disparate racial
impacts.
By creating a bipartisan commission to study inequality in government
programs, we take the necessary steps to identify and address
disparities for Black American men and boys. This bill will help ensure
that we make meaningful progress in creating a more free and equal
country.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in support of this bill,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr.
Armstrong, for such passionate and committed words toward truly making
sure that we have a just and fair society for everyone.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
Jackson Lee), who is my good friend.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her
leadership, and I particularly rise today to thank all of my colleagues
who joined in this historic moment with Congresswoman Frederica Wilson.
Let it be known how hard and consistently she worked and with much
perseverance and determination. We give her tribute today. We thank
Senator Rubio for joining and helping with the Senate, because it is a
bipartisan bill. We, likewise, acknowledge the Commission on the Social
Status of Black Men and Boys. We acknowledge these words that she said
to me this morning: It will help save lives.
That is why we stand on the floor today, because we recognize that
systemic racism exists and the encounters of our young boys with people
who determine that they are not human or equal wind up in the great
loss of life or their encounter with each other. So I am delighted that
members of the Judiciary Committee, members of the Education and Labor
Committee, and other committees focus on how we can do well.
This Scripture reminds me of where we are today: `` . . . this is the
kind of fasting I want: Free those who are wrongly imprisoned; lighten
the burden of those who work for you. Let the oppressed go free, and
remove the chains that bind people. Share your food with the hungry,
and give shelter to the homeless.''
This is a time where we are doing what we need to do for Black boys
and men. This is a time when we stand up and be counted to end systemic
racism as it impacts them and this Nation.
Mr. Speaker, I ask support for this outstanding and historic
legislation.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the distinguished
gentleman from New York (Mr Jeffries).
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of this
legislation which will create a long-overdue Commission on the Social
Status of Black Men and Boys.
We have come a long way in America, but we still have a long way to
go. Slavery was not a necessary evil. It was a crime against humanity
anchored in kidnap, rape, torture, lynching, and the systemic
oppression and
[[Page H3875]]
enslavement of people of African descent century after century after
century. We are still living with its legacy today.
Frederick Douglass once said: ``It is easier to build strong children
than it is to repair broken men.'' So it is my hope that this
commission can begin the real process of repairing broken boys, broken
men, broken families, and broken communities as a result of the
systemic racism that has been in the soil of America for 401 years.
I thank the distinguished gentlewoman from Florida, Frederica Wilson,
for her tremendous leadership.
Vote ``yes.''
Mr. Speaker, as a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee and
a cosponsor of the House companion to this bill, I rise in strong
support of S. 2163 ``The Commission on the Social Status of Black Men
and Boys Act of 2019'', which establishes a bipartisan commission that
will examine the social disparities that disproportionately affect
black men and boys in America.
I want to thank my friend and colleague, Frederica Wilson, for
introducing this crucial piece of legislation.
As we have seen time and time again, the reality of being Black in
America today is characterized by facing insurmountable and unjust
challenges in every aspect of day-to-day life as well as living in
constant fear for your life.
From Trayvon Martin to Tamir Rice to Ahmaud Arbery to George Floyd,
our Black brothers are targeted and murdered for the color of their
skin.
We are all too familiar with the overwhelming hardships and
significant societal disparities that face Black men every day in
education, criminal justice, health, employment, and so many other
areas.
The low rate of high school retention among black male students is
directly related to the high rates of joblessness and incarceration in
the African-American population.
It's no secret that mass incarceration has unfairly and
disproportionately affected the lives of Black men in the United
States.
African Americans are incarcerated at more than 5 times the rate of
their white counterparts.
And 1 out of every 3 Black boys born today can expect to be sentenced
to prison, compared 1 out 6 Latino boys; one out of 17 white boys.
These barriers to quality employment further exacerbate the cycles of
poverty that in turn lead to severe inequities in the areas of health
and quality health care.
We must find ways to disrupt and end this cycle and instead empower
and uplift the Black community.
With this in mind, this bill enables our nation to better understand
and eventually eliminate the educational and social chasms that have
made it extraordinarily difficult for black males to become upwardly
mobile.
This bipartian commission will recommend actionable policies and
practices to improve upon or augment current government programs to
alleviate and remedy the underlying causes of the adverse social
conditions that are a reality for too many black men and boys.
I ask all members to join me in voting for S. 2163, ``The Commission
on the Social Status of Black Men and Boys Act of 2019.''
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Rhode Island (Mr. Cicilline).
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I want to begin by acknowledging the extraordinary
leadership of Frederica Wilson, who has spent her entire life dedicated
to the well-being of young Black men and boys and has decades and
decades of incredible support of young people in her community. This
commission is a reflection of that commitment.
Merely because of the color of their skin, Black men and boys are
criminalized, separated from their families and communities, and
targeted for police violence at alarmingly high rates. Black men are
250 percent more likely to be killed by police than White men. That
fact is a stain on the soul of this country.
But America's sins extend far beyond the deadly disparities in
policing. Racism touches nearly every aspect of our lives, oftentimes
in the most insidious and subtle of ways, yet still in plain view in
the areas of healthcare, education, and economic opportunities.
We must address the sins of America's past that have revealed
themselves in the inequalities of America's present. The Commission on
the Social Status of Black Men and Boys moves us one step closer to
building a more perfect Union where all Americans, regardless of race,
have an equal opportunity, not just to get by, but to get ahead.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his courtesy, and I strongly
urge my colleagues to support this excellent bill.
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. Lee), who is our great fighter for justice.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, first, let me thank the
gentlewoman for yielding and for sharing her story about her beautiful
son, Jordan, and using her tragedy to ensure not only the survival, but
the thriving, for African-American boys and men.
Also, to Congresswoman Wilson, I have to thank Frederica for her
extraordinary leadership and determination to ensure that the
disparities affecting our Black men and boys are finally being heard
and addressed within our Federal Government.
While serving in the California Legislature, I initiated and chaired
the California Commission on the Status of African-American Males.
Those findings sparked a difficult but necessary discussion in our
State, which is still relevant today, and were implemented as
legislation and funding priorities.
This commission at the national level is long overdue. All too often,
Black men and boys face structural challenges that threaten their
chance at a good education, harm their health, and limit their
employment potential. Additionally, the low rate of high school
retention among Black male students is directly related to the high
rates of joblessness and incarceration in the African-American
population.
In this moment, the horrors of systemic racism are front and center,
and the manifestations are before us each and every day.
This commission brings hope. It will transform the lives of young
Black men from infancy to adulthood and will begin to remove so many of
the barriers that have led to shattered lives and hopelessness. It is
about hope.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from
Massachusetts (Ms. Pressley), who is an extraordinary warrior for
justice in America.
Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, today I rise on behalf of every Black man
and Black boy who has been dehumanized, surveilled, and targeted by the
policies drafted and debated within the walls of this very institution
and institutions of power throughout our Nation.
I rise today to offer my unwavering support and to thank
Congresswoman Wilson for laboring in love to see the Commission on the
Social Status of Black Men and Boys Act become a reality. It is long-
overdue legislation that will push our Nation one step closer to
grappling with the systemic racism and structural barriers that have
robbed us of the lives of our Black husbands, our Black brothers, and
our Black sons.
Passage of this bill today is a testament to the longstanding calls
and efforts in communities, including in my own Boston. When I was on
the Boston City Council in 2014, we attempted to establish a commission
like this, and that effort was vetoed. So it feels so good to see this
happening on the Federal level.
The passage of this bill today is a testament to the longstanding
calls and efforts throughout our Nation to examine and combat the
systemic inequities and disparities impacting Black boys and men from
education and employment to health and to housing and to incarceration.
With this bill's passage today, we declare on the floor of the House
of Representatives, the people's House, that we are our brother's
keeper, that Black lives matter, that Black men matter, and that our
Black boys matter.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Oregon (Mr. Blumenauer), who is my good friend and comrade.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentlewoman's courtesy
and her courage, and I welcome this commission's coming forward. It is
part of a dynamic that is playing out across American cities. In my
community, the cries for racial justice and the recognition of the
challenges that have been faced by Black men and boys in this
commission is a step in that direction.
[[Page H3876]]
But I would say this Congress can take another step. We have the MORE
Act which would legalize cannabis. The selective enforcement of the
prohibition of marijuana against Black men and boys has been a tragedy.
It has ruined hundreds of thousands of lives.
This Congress can take action. The bill has already passed out of our
Judiciary Committee with a bipartisan majority. We ought to include
that in our next package and start to right the wrongs and pry away the
cold hand of Richard Nixon's misguided war on drugs that has had such a
vicious impact on Black men and women.
We ought to start with that now.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
We also have the STATES Act, which enjoys a huge bipartisan
cosponsorship among members of the Judiciary Committee.
I think it is unfortunate that sometimes we choose partisanship and
gamesmanship over passing what I think is one of the most criminal
justice reform-minded and drug reform-minded Congresses that has ever
set foot in Washington, D.C., and there is a bill that actually would
have the potential to possibly become law.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. Wasserman Schultz), who is a good friend and a committed
Member from the Sunshine State of Florida.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
important legislation authored by my friend and colleague,
Congresswoman Wilson.
Since serving on Miami-Dade's School Board and seeing too many young
Black men drop out of school with lifelong repercussions, Congresswoman
Wilson has worked tirelessly to intervene. She single-handedly began
the 5000 Role Models of Excellence Project, a highly successful
mentorship and leadership program that continues to transform countless
young Black men's lives.
In the wake of George Floyd's murder, millions of voices have
demanded justice and a dismantling of the oppressive systems that
harmed Black men for generations.
In America, Black children are three times more likely to be born in
poverty than White children. School districts where the majority of
those enrolled are students of color receive billions less than mostly
White districts, while disciplinary policies in classes
disproportionately impact Black students.
After school, Black male unemployment is consistently almost double
that of their White counterparts. Black men represent 12 percent of the
population but approximately 33 percent of the prison population.
This legislation makes righting these wrongs a priority by creating
this national commission to recommend major changes to policy to
dramatically improve the lives of Black men and boys.
Congresswoman Frederica Wilson has made this her life's work. She has
literally carried thousands of young men on her shoulders to success.
As we honor the legacy of John Lewis, there is no more appropriate
tribute than to pass this bill and continue the long march toward
racial equality.
{time}  1115
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. Meeks), a stalwart for justice and hope.
Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I first thank Congresswoman Wilson, and, of
course, Congresswoman McBath.
Mr. Speaker, I stand before you today to speak on the creation of a
Commission on the Social Status of Black Men and Boys at the U.S. Civil
Rights Commission. Racial inequality in this country remains stark and
stubborn. Black men are 40 percent more likely to be unemployed today
than White men; twice as likely not to own the home they live in; 2\1/
2\ times as likely to be killed by police officers; and 5 times as
likely to be locked behind bars.
Mr. Speaker, we cannot ignore these problems. We can't waive away
what is right before our eyes. Racial inequality in this country must
be confronted. The time has come to address this most painful of
issues. Indeed, the time has long past, but justice delayed is better
than no justice at all.
``To those who have said, `Be patient and wait,' we have long said
that we cannot be patient. We do not want our freedom gradually; but we
want to be free now. We are tired. We are tired of being beaten by
policemen. We are tired of seeing our people locked up in jail over and
over again. And then you holler, `Be patient.' How long can we be
patient? We want our freedom, and we want it now.''
These are the words of John Robert Lewis at the March on Washington
in 1963, and we need to heed them today.
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. Judy Chu), who is a good friend and colleague fighting
on behalf of communities of color.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of Senate 2163, a bill to address the root causes of inequality
for Black men and boys in America.
Mr. Speaker, today, as the civil rights icon, John Lewis, is laying
in state just a few feet in the Capitol rotunda, I am so moved to know
that the banner of equality, which he waved his whole life is being
picked up by the next generation.
As chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, I have
seen Americans of all backgrounds and ethnicities united in filling the
streets to demand reforms to a criminal justice system that does not
value Black lives and to an economy that does not give Black boys an
equal chance of success.
The people have had enough with the systemic inequalities that have
persisted since our founding. But we cannot fix them unless we
understand them. That is what this commission will do by looking at the
obstacles and policy and culture that keep Black youth from having the
same opportunities that Whites do. We must listen to the demands of a
country that is saying ``no'' to racial inequality.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. Danny K. Davis), the gentleman from my original home
State.
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman
from Georgia for giving me the opportunity to speak on this important
bill.
As a matter of fact, Representative Frederica Wilson has made this
her life's work. As a matter of fact, I am wearing her 5000 Role Model
tie, where for many years she established one of the most effective
programs in public education with the Dade Miami school board, where
5,000 young males are taught and trained.
Mr. Speaker, we have had many efforts. Eleanor Holmes Norton and I
created the Caucus on Black Men and Boys. We have been all over the
country with conferences. And I remind us that what we say is one
thing, but what we do is something else.
Mr. Speaker, I hope that we take into consideration all of the things
that we know that has caused the disparities among African American
males and do something that is going to really make a difference. Put
them into action.
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire how much time is remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman from Georgia has 6\1/2\
minutes remaining. The gentleman from North Dakota has 16\1/2\ minutes
remaining.
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the gentlewoman from Florida
(Ms. Wilson), I read into the Record a statement.
Mr. Speaker, the Commission on the Social Status of Black
Men and Boys is a bill that is long overdue. The Commission
will review police brutality, gun violence, fatherhood,
recruiting and training Black male teachers, and even
speakers, which play an important role in the lives of Black
boys. Welfare reform and the 1994 crime bill--which includes
the controversial ``Three Strikes'' provision and harsh
sentencing guidelines--will also be revisited. These Federal
policies left a devastating impact on Black men and boys in
America.
The underlying goal of the commission is to interrupt the
school-to-prison pipeline and to better understand and,
eventually, eliminate the educational and social chasms that
have made it extraordinarily difficult for Black males to
become upwardly mobile.
Perhaps, the most dangerous issue facing Black boys in our
country is racism itself. Too often, they are perceived as
criminals by
[[Page H3877]]
the time they reach the age of 5. They are labeled
delinquent, not rowdy. They are hardened criminals, not
misguided youth. Their very existence is often seen as a
threat. It is a tragic reality that Black males in America
are treated as their own class of citizens.
We see this treatment reflected in social outcomes in such
areas as education, criminal justice, healthcare, and
employment. The numbers are staggering. More than 1 out of
every 6 Black men, who, today, should be between the ages of
20 and 54 years old have disappeared from our daily lives.
Low rates of high school retention among Black male students
directly relates to the high rates of joblessness and
incarceration.
More than two-thirds of Black male dropouts end up serving
time in State or Federal prison, and while Black males
overall make up roughly 13 percent of the United States
population, they represent nearly 40 percent of all men
serving time in State and Federal prisons.
Mr. Speaker, I am confident that the Commission on the
Social Status of Black Men and Boys will change the world for
so many people and create the paths to success that they have
been denied for generations, and, ultimately, close societal,
economic, and cultural divides.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill. I am not an
expert on all of these issues, but I do know quite a bit about criminal
justice. It is important to recognize that a lot of things we are
talking about in these bills are delivered at the local level, whether
it is criminal justice, whether it is education, whether it is any of
those types of things.
This isn't about percentages and data points. This is about
communities, and this is about people. But at no time in history have
we been better able to collect information in a more usable way. When I
served in the State senate in North Dakota, I was the chair of what we
call our Justice Reinvestment Committee. And what we found out very
shortly was that our data was all over the place. In order to make
smart, effectuating change and provide localities and States and
communities with the proper information so they can target where they
can really do the most good--oftentimes on strained budgets and just
different areas--it is important that studies like this come out
because there are things we can do in Congress.
To be quite frank, we are behind the game. Conservative and liberal
States all across the country have started on this, and they started
before us--States like North Dakota, States like Colorado, States like
Mississippi. It is our job to get in the game. It is our job to provide
them with the information we can. And, yes, we will make reforms here,
but we will also give them the tools and the data so they can really
take a deep dive into their own communities and figure out where they
can best serve their constituents and where they can start getting rid
of these institutional racial disparities that exist, whether it be in
the criminal justice system, whether it be in education, whether it be
in healthcare.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member, Mr. Armstrong, and my
colleagues on the other side of the aisle for supporting our need to
really make systemic change in the country.
I also thank Congresswoman Wilson. If it had not been for her
legislation, I wouldn't be standing before you today.
Congressman Richmond and also Congressman Jeffries, Senator Rubio,
Senator Harris, and Senator Booker; it has been an honor to work with
each of them in bringing this bipartisan legislation to a vote.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues for their support for this very,
very critical bill, and I look forward to the important work that this
commission will accomplish on behalf of all Black men and boys and on
behalf of my son, Jordan. I am so grateful to this body for finding
this so critically important, so that no one will ever have to feel the
pain of losing their Black child, their Black male son to the
disparities and inequities that face communities of color each and
every single day. I thank every one of my colleagues. I thank the
thousands and thousands of parents that I have spoken to over the
years, and all of the survivors of the families who have lost their
loved ones. I thank them for finding this important. I thank them for
standing up and finding this timely in a world that doesn't always see
young Black males as human.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the
gentlewoman from Georgia (Mrs. McBath) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, S. 2163.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to section 3 of House Resolution
965, the yeas and nays are ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 368,
nays 1, not voting 61, as follows:
[Roll No. 167]
YEAS--368
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barragan
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cardenas
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (CA)
Garcia (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jacobs
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Lujan
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney, Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Mfume
Miller
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O'Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sanchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
[[Page H3878]]
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small (NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velazquez
Visclosky
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS--1
Brooks (AL)
NOT VOTING--61
Abraham
Babin
Barr
Bergman
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Bucshon
Bustos
Byrne
Carson (IN)
Collins (GA)
Curtis
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Flores
Fortenberry
Fulcher
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Griffith
Hagedorn
Higgins (LA)
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
LaHood
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
McClintock
Mitchell
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Neguse
Newhouse
Olson
Palazzo
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rouzer
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Stauber
Steube
Stewart
Tiffany
Timmons
Wagner
Walker
Webster (FL)
Wilson (SC)
{time}  1230
Messrs. CUELLAR and YOHO changed their vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.''
So (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the rules were suspended and
the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
Stated for:
Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall Vote No. 167, I am not recorded
because I was not present in the House. Had I been present, I would
have voted ``yea'' on rollcall No. 167.
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall Vote No. 167, I was
unavoidably detained and unable to cast my vote. Had I been present, I
would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall Vote No. 167.
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall No. 167, I am not recorded.
Had I been present, I would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall No. 167.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I am unable to attend today's vote series
due to events in my district. Had I been present, I would have voted
``yea'' on rollcall No. 167.
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I was unable to be present for a
recorded vote on S. 2163, the Commission on the Social Status of Black
Men and Boys Act. Had I been present, I would have voted ``yea'' on
rollcall No. 167.
MEMBERS RECORDED PURSUANT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 965, 116TH CONGRESS
Boyle, Brendan F. (Lamb)
Castro (TX) (Escobar)
Cleaver (Davids (KS))
DeSaulnier (Matsui)
Deutch (Rice (NY))
Doyle, Michael F. (Cartwright)
Frankel (Clark (MA))
Garamendi (Sherman)
Hastings (Wasserman Schultz)
Higgins (NY) (Sanchez)
Johnson (TX) (Jeffries)
Kelly (IL) (Raskin)
Khanna (Sherman)
Kind (Beyer)
Kirkpatrick (Gallego)
Kuster (NH) (Brownley (CA))
Langevin (Lynch)
Lawson (FL) (Evans)
Lieu, Ted (Beyer)
Lipinski (Cooper)
Lofgren (Jeffries)
Lowenthal (Beyer)
Lowey (Meng)
McEachin (Wexton)
Moore (Beyer)
Moulton (Rose (NY))
Nadler (Jeffries)
Napolitano (Correa)
Pascrell (Sires)
Payne (Wasserman Schultz)
Pingree (Cicilline)
Pocan (Raskin)
Porter (Wexton)
Serrano (Jeffries)
Watson Coleman (Pallone)
Welch (McGovern)
Wilson (FL) (Hayes)
____________________