skip to content senator heinrich facebook senator heinrich twitter senator heinrich instagram senator heinrich youtube senator heinrich flickr home logo link newsroom press releases published: november 20th, 2025 video: senate republicans block heinrich’s attempt to repeal pay-out provisions for senators heinrich took to the floor to pass legislation, unanimously passed in the house , to repeal a last-minute provision allowing republican senators to collect $500,000 per lawfully subpoenaed phone record video here washington — today, u.s. senator martin heinrich (d-n.m.), ranking member of the u.s. senate appropriations subcommittee on the legislative branch, delivered remarks on the senate floor and urged passage of legislation the house passed unanimously — h.r. 6019 — to repeal u.s. senate majority leader john thune’s (r-s.d.) ‘arctic frost’ provision, which allows republican senators to collect $500,000 for every phone record that was previously, lawfully obtained. the legislation mirrors heinrich’s legislation from earlier this week, known as the anti-cash grab act. senate republicans, through an objection from u.s. senator lindsey graham (r-s.c.), blocked heinrich’s repeal of the ‘arctic frost’ provision. u.s. senator martin heinrich (d-n.m.) urging the senate to repeal the ‘arctic frost’ provision, november 20, 2025. “instead of tackling the affordability crisis in this country, instead of blocking president trump's tariffs and undoing his war on american jobs, instead of fighting to protect the 41 million people whose snap benefits were in jeopardy during trump's shutdown, republicans made time to insert this payoff. it is unprecedented in american history,” heinrich said. heinrich continued, “it is why this week i introduced a bill with u.s. senator mark kelly to shut down this taxpayer funded payoff. we must reverse this last-minute giveaway that lets a few senators pocket millions of dollars of taxpayer money while millions of americans are revisiting their budgets to figure out how to make it to the end of the month.” “it is, to put it clearly, a test of our accountability, our transparency, and most of all, our integrity. i know which side i am on,” heinrich underscored. this week, heinrich, alongside u.s. senator mark kelly (d-ariz.), led the introduction of the anti-cash grab act, legislation similar to h.r. 6019, to repeal the ‘arctic frost’ provision. heinrich’s remarks, as delivered, are below: last week, republicans in congress passed a government funding bill that denies affordable health care to millions of americans. but what most people do not know, is that they also voted to provide millions of dollars to a few republican senators in a blatant tax funded cash grab. here's what happened. in the process of passing government funding legislation, senate republicans air dropped a provision into the bill at the last minute. this provision allows eight republican senators to collect millions of dollars from the u.s. government. when what the department of justice did was to lawfully subpoena those phone records during a grand jury investigation. but now these eight senators can sue the government for at least half a million dollars for each individual instance of a lawful access to those phone records. that means that each senator could actually pocket millions of dollars and that money would be paid from your hard-earned tax dollars. and that is even though the law was followed by the government at the time, and frankly, this is just outrageous to me. this is at the exact same time as 22 million americans could see their health insurance premiums skyrocket because republicans refused to extend the aca tax credits. this is at the exact same time as millions of seniors and veterans and families are learning that they will lose their snap food assistance altogether because of president trump's “big, bad bill.” it is at the exact same time as families across my home state of new mexico, and across america, are wondering how they will put thanksgiving food on the table or how they will put presents under the tree in a month. how they will fuel their car to get to the job that is in jeopardy now because of president trump's cancelation of federal grants, exorbitant tariff taxes, and overall recklessness. but instead of fixing all of that, instead of tackling the affordability crisis in this country, instead of blocking president trump's tariffs and undoing his war on american jobs, instead of fighting to protect the 41 million people whose snap benefits were in jeopardy during trump's shutdown, republicans made time to insert this payoff. it is unprecedented in american history. let us put it another way: everyday people are struggling. well, one tiktok account called “dollar tree dinners,” an account that teaches low-income folks how to make filling meals from dollar tree ingredients, has over 3 million followers. u.s. senators could receive over $3 million from your wallet. there are no existing records of congress creating a taxpayer funded cash pipeline for senators to sue the government for doing its job. that is probably because it is so patently wrong. even house speaker mike johnson agrees with me. and when speaker johnson and i agree something is bad, you know it is really, really bad. as ranking member of the u.s. senate appropriations subcommittee on the legislative branch, where this provision was inserted, i can tell you that the process to include it was not normal. it was not in our markup. normally, we have the opportunity to review new language, provide edits, negotiate. none of that happened. this was slipped in at the 11th hour and now the american people are expected to pony up. i am furious that the senate majority leader chose to air drop this provision into that bill, in particular, with zero negotiation with the subcommittee that actually oversees this work. and it is why this week i introduced a bill with u.s. senator mark kelly to shut down this taxpayer funded payoff. we must reverse this last-minute giveaway that lets a few senators pocket millions of dollars of taxpayer money while millions of americans are revisiting their budgets to figure out how to make it to the end of the month. like my anti-cash grab act, h.r. 6019 will eliminate the retroactive $500,000 per instance cash claims for senators. it will block millions in taxpayer funded kickbacks to politicians and it still keeps the door open for legitimate reforms to notification requirements without any of the self-enriching loopholes. now, i disagree with the title of h.r. 6019, but i agree on the substance and that is what matters here. the truth is that a country where a sitting elected official can get half a million dollars or more, in one go, while people around the country see their monthly costs rise by hundreds or thousands of dollars, that is a country that is not serving the people. this is not the america i know and it is not the america we should be. this is a test. this is a test of whether congress works for hard working families across america or for d.c. insiders. it is, to put it clearly, a test of our accountability, our transparency, and most of all, our integrity. i know which side i am on. mr. president, i would ask unanimous consent that the senate proceed to the immediate consideration of h.r. 6019, which was received from the house and is at the desk. ### previous article next article website-search