[congressional record volume 170, number 16 (monday, january 29, 2024)] [house] [pages h261-h262] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] lieutenant william d. lebo post office building mr. donalds. madam speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 3865) to designate the facility of the united states postal service located at 101 south 8th street in lebanon, pennsylvania, as the ``lieutenant william d. lebo post office building''. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 3865 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. lieutenant william d. lebo post office building. (a) designation.--the facility of the united states postal service located at 101 south 8th street in lebanon, pennsylvania, shall be known and designated as the ``lieutenant william d. lebo post office building''. (b) references.--any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the united states to the facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``lieutenant william d. lebo post office building''. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from florida (mr. donalds) and the gentleman from maryland (mr. raskin) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from florida. general leave mr. donalds. madam speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on this measure. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from florida? there was no objection. mr. donalds. madam speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. madam speaker, i rise today in support of h.r. 3865, which names a lebanon, pennsylvania, post office for lieutenant william d. lebo. lieutenant lebo was born in vicenza, italy, to american parents. at the end of his father's service in the u.s. army, the lebo family moved to lebanon county, pennsylvania. lieutenant lebo lived in lebanon county for the rest of his life and grew up to join the lebanon city police department, where he served for 40 years. in march of 2022, 30 days before he was set to retire, lieutenant lebo was shot and killed in the line of duty. lieutenant lebo died protecting the community he grew up in, and i support this bill that honors his legacy in lebanon county. madam speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. raskin. madam speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i rise in support of h.r. 3865 to designate the facility of the united states postal service located at 101 south 8th street in lebanon, pennsylvania, as the lieutenant william d. lebo post office building. i join mr. donalds in praising the work of lieutenant lebo. he had a remarkable 40-year career with the lebanon city police department, but in march 2022, just 1 month before he was set to retire, lieutenant lebo was killed while on duty. i encourage my colleagues to join us in honoring the life of lieutenant lebo by naming a post office in lebanon, pennsylvania, after him. madam speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. donalds. madam speaker, i yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. meuser). mr. meuser. madam speaker, i thank the gentleman from florida (mr. donalds), my good friend, for yielding on this important issue. i also thank my colleague from maryland for his support. madam speaker, it is truly my honor today to rise in support of this community bill, h.r. 3865, which would rename the post office at 101 south 8th street in lebanon, pennsylvania, as the lieutenant william d. lebo post office building. madam speaker, lieutenant lebo, of the lebanon city police department, tragically lost his life in the line of duty on march 31, 2022, while responding to a domestic-related burglary incident. during his memorial, my very good friend, lebanon county district attorney pier hess graf, said that lieutenant lebo's last words to his men before entering the house that fateful day were, ``i am going to go in first, and i am going to keep you safe.'' this is the kind of police officer lieutenant lebo was, a man who was willing to give his life to protect his fellow officers. he served the lebanon police department and his community faithfully for 40 years and was just 30 days from retirement at the time of his passing. madam speaker, as the son of a police officer, the risk of our finest, to protect and serve, needs never be forgotten and should always be respected and certainly not taken for granted. lieutenant lebo's fellow officers say there is not a day that goes by without members of the department sharing fond stories of lieutenant lebo. i am told a story often shared is that lieutenant lebo would drive around in his patrol car with the windows down to better interact with the community he served but also to more easily hear if someone needed help. he was an incredibly community-oriented police officer who really served as a model for law enforcement. lieutenant lebo is survived by his loving wife, lora; his daughter, corinne; and his mother, rina. i am honored to have them joining us here today in the house chamber, along with the mayor of lebanon city, sherry capello, and lebanon city police chief bret fisher. we are honored to have them with us. lieutenant lebo was known as a mentor to younger officers, whom he loved training to be the best police officers that they could be. as chief fisher has said: somebody that has spent 40 years at the police department as lieutenant lebo did, they are still with you in so many ways. there is not much you can touch or do that lieutenant lebo did not have his hand in somewhere along his career on the lebanon city police force. to honor her husband's remarkable life, lora lebo established the lieutenant william d. lebo memorial foundation, which is dedicated to supporting the growth of lebanon with positive intent, providing educational scholarship to lebanon county first responders and their children, and providing comprehensive leadership development training to the law enforcement community. while lora and the community have already done such great work keeping lieutenant lebo's memory alive, it is my hope that the renaming of this post office in his honor will further serve as a lasting recognition of his life and legacy, during which he always put service above self. i do know that memorializing lieutenant lebo in this manner will be so meaningful to the lebanon community. while i attended lieutenant lebo's funeral, it was overwhelmingly clear just how much he meant to lebanon and, in fact, to all of pennsylvania. the procession, madam speaker, was miles long, and people lined the streets to pay their final respects. lieutenant lebo was a dedicated public servant who is remembered by his colleagues and those he served as a calm, kind, and ethical police officer who was completely devoted to protecting the lebanon community. i ask my colleagues to join me today in supporting h.r. 3865 to rename the post office in lebanon, pennsylvania, for a very deserving local hero, lieutenant william d. lebo. {time} 1630 mr. raskin. madam speaker, i have no further speakers, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. donalds. madam speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this measure, and i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from florida (mr. donalds) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 3865. the question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the rules were suspended and the bill was passed. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. [[page h262]] ____________________