[congressional record volume 170, number 8 (tuesday, january 16, 2024)] [house] [pages h141-h143] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] authority of u.s. customs and border protection to consolidate, modify, or reorganize customs revenue functions mr. smith of nebraska. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 5862) to amend the homeland security act of 2002 relating to authority of u.s. customs and border protection to consolidate, modify, or reorganize customs revenue functions, as amended. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 5862 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. authority of u.s. customs and border protection to consolidate, modify, or reorganize customs revenue functions. (a) in general.--section 412 of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 212(b)) is amended-- (1) in subsection (b)-- (a) in paragraph (1)-- (i) by striking ``consolidate, discontinue,'' and inserting ``discontinue''; and (ii) by inserting after ``reduce the staffing level'' the following: ``below the optimal staffing level determined in the most recent resource allocation model required by section 301(h) of the customs procedural reform and simplification act of 1978 (19 u.s.c. 2075(h))''; and (b) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, national account managers, international trade analysts'' after ``financial systems specialists''; and (2) by adding at the end the following: ``(d) authority to consolidate, modify, or reorganize customs revenue functions.-- ``(1) in general.--the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection may, subject to subsection (b), consolidate, modify, or reorganize customs revenue functions delegated to the commissioner under subsection (a), including by adding such functions to existing positions or establishing new or modifying existing job series, grades, titles, or classifications for personnel, and associated support staff, performing such functions, in consultation with the office of personnel management. ``(2) position classification standards.--at the request of the commissioner, the director of the office of personnel management shall establish new position classification standards for any new positions established by the commissioner under paragraph (1).''. (b) technical correction.--section 412(a)(1) of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 212(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``403(a)(1)'' and inserting ``403(1)''. the speaker pro tempore (mr. valadao). pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from nebraska (mr. smith) and the gentleman from california (mr. panetta) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from nebraska. general leave mr. smith of nebraska. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and submit extraneous material on the bill under consideration. [[page h142]] the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from nebraska? there was no objection. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, america's trading relationships, as well as the challenges we face in trade around the world, are evolving every day. we must respond to those challenges now, not years in the future. families, farmers, workers, and small businesses rely on us to look out for them in an increasingly complex world. last year, the committee on ways and means traveled to the port of staten island in new york and a cattle auction barn in minnesota to listen to the american people whose livelihoods depend on international trade. they all asked congress to do more to insist on strong enforcement of our trade laws. the bill before us, h.r. 5862, will help address the challenges of ever-changing threats around the world through more effective enforcement of u.s. trade laws. it takes six narrowly defined jobs at customs and border protection and replaces them with a single position of trade specialist in the agency's office of international trade. this streamlining will make cbp respond faster and more effectively to our nation's trade challenges and protect and defend america's economic interests. i thank the bill's sponsor and author, certainly, representative steel, as well as representative panetta, for taking the lead on this critical issue for american workers and the security of our supply chains. this bipartisan legislation will help ensure that american workers, families, farmers, and small businesses are not left behind. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this bill, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. panetta. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise in support of h.r. 5862, the global trade specialist act. it is legislation that i am proud to have co-led with my friend and fellow californian, representative steel. it is a bill that would allow customs and border protection to fulfill the position of global trade specialist, which would help facilitate and further our nation's trade by giving cbp the flexibility to flow with the future of international trade. as we know well, customs and border protection has an important role to play when it comes to supporting trade. that is why cbp should also have the proper authority to modernize their staffing as the trade environment evolves. currently, cbp's office of international trade has several distinct but separate trade positions. this includes jobs such as import specialists, international trade analysts, management and program analysts, trade economists, auditors, attorneys, and so forth. these jobs do help cbp execute and enforce u.s. trade laws and ultimately protect our american economy, but there is a position missing, and that is a global trade specialist. cbp has created such a position, but it does not have the flexibility, nor does it have the legal authority to hire for this position. our legislation would give cbp that needed authority and so much more. the global trade specialist position would allow cbp to realign and reshape the workforce in response to the evolving trade environment. it would be able to do this because the position also would better utilize and focus existing resources and customs' revenue functions. it would give cbp more flexibility to modernize its trade workforce, to retain its employees, and to build its institutional knowledge. it would equip trade employees to more effectively execute trade enforcement and compliance operations. it would increase professional development opportunities. ultimately, by making trade facilitation jobs more attractive and rewarding rather than bureaucratic and boring, this legislation would enhance cbp's responsibility to recruit and retain staff and meet the mandated staffing levels as set forth in the homeland security act of 2002. in the formulation of this bipartisan legislation, i am not only proud to have worked with my fellow ways and means and california colleague, mrs. steel, but it was built from provisions that were included in both the house's america competes act and the senate's united states innovation and competition act. we also have incorporated feedback from cbp to ensure that this provision would work as intended and made additional changes at the request of office and personnel management. lastly, this legislation is supported by the national treasury employees union, which represents cbp workers. due to its broad support, this legislation passed unanimously at that ways and means committee markup last november. i thank chairman adrian smith and, of course, ranking member neal for supporting this bipartisan bill that is the product of good-faith collaboration. it is a bill, mr. speaker, that will allow cbp employees to go beyond a bureaucratic role and actually allow cbp to be creative, to be flexible, and to be forward-thinking when it comes to the ebbs and flows and the future of trade. that is why i worked on this legislation, that is why i fully support its passage, and i encourage all of my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the global trade specialist act. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. {time} 1715 mr. smith of nebraska. mr. speaker, i yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from california (mrs. steel), an author of the bill. mrs. steel. mr. speaker, i rise today to urge my colleagues to support h.r. 5862, the global trade specialist act. i am proud to have introduced this bipartisan legislation with fellow californian, congressman jimmy panetta. in the 20-plus years since congress created the department of homeland security, the world has changed drastically. that means reforms are needed to improve u.s. customs and border protection's global trade operations. for over 5 years, cbp has requested authorization to create a global trade specialist position within its international trade office. this position would improve trade law enforcement and facilitate legitimate trade. my bill will make narrowly tailored updates to help cbp respond to ever-evolving trade challenges by better utilizing existing personnel within cbp. both the house and senate already passed bills that would grant cbp the authority to create a global trade specialist position, but neither bill has yet been enacted into law. the ways and means committee has repeatedly heard hearing testimony about how a global trade specialist position within cbp will better serve the needs of american workers and safeguard supply chains. that is why the ways and means committee passed the bill unanimously by a margin of 42-0 in november of last year. as geopolitical relationships change more rapidly and drastically in the modern world, it is critical that we empower cbp to operate as efficiently as possible. this legislation will empower cbp to address the dynamic and urgent nature of u.s. trade enforcement and help maintain american dominance in the global economy. mr. speaker, i urge a ``yes'' vote to finally get this commonsense solution across the finish line for the american people. mr. panetta. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. in closing, as you have heard, mr. speaker, this legislation has broad bipartisan support and support from the cbp. it really is critical that we modernize our trade administration as our trade environment is changing faster than ever. cbp's staffing model must evolve, and congress must do its part to facilitate that evolution. mr. speaker, i encourage my colleagues to support this legislation, to send this to the senate and ultimately to the president's desk for signature into law. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. i thank my colleagues from both sides of the aisle for very sufficiently described the bill, why we need to do it, and the details contained in the bill. mr. speaker, i certainly urge my colleagues to support the bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. [[page h143]] the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from nebraska (mr. smith) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 5862, as amended. the question was taken. the speaker pro tempore. in the opinion of the chair, two-thirds being in the affirmative, the ayes have it. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this motion will be postponed. ____________________