[congressional record volume 170, number 17 (tuesday, january 30, 2024)] [house] [page h279] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] honoring the life of geralene ``jerri'' mills sutton the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from north carolina (mr. murphy) for 5 minutes. mr. murphy. mr. speaker, today, i rise to recognize the extraordinary life of my good friend geralene ``jerri'' mills sutton. jerri was born and raised in greenville, north carolina, and described herself as a daughter of eastern north carolina. a passionate educator, jerri started her career with the virginia state department of education. following her tenure, she traveled the world working with the united nations and advocating for the improvement of educational systems in developing countries. as someone who has done so much medical work in these developing countries, i have seen firsthand how desperately needed good educational systems are. jerri saw this and put her words into action. she returned to eastern north carolina with an unwavering commitment to better her community and spearheaded the restoration of the red banks primitive baptist church in greenville, north carolina. after settling in beaufort, north carolina, a beautiful eastern coastal town, jerri immersed herself in the vibrant, rich, and welcoming community there. she found solace in the beauty of the coastal environment and enjoyed gazing out at the sunset from the porch of her home. in 2017, she took the role of founding trustee and president of the maritime heritage foundation of beaufort, where i served as an honorary trustee and was honored to work with her also. her leadership played a pivotal role in establishing the foundation's ``gallants channel'' campaign cabinet, which advanced fundraising for expanding the north carolina maritime museum. under her leadership, they raised $1.5 million for the foundation, and campaigning our legislators in raleigh, received $3 million funded by the north carolina general assembly. jerri peacefully passed away on january 3, surrounded by her loved ones in durham. her enduring legacy of stewardship and compassion and humanitarian spirit continues to touch the lives of all those she encountered. today, we honor jerri for her inspiring life and the tremendous legacy of love and commitment she had. recognizing marine corps air station cherry point mr. murphy. mr. speaker, i rise today to honor and recognize marine corps air station cherry point in havelock, north carolina, which has been named the 2024 marine corps air station of the year. cherry point is home to the 2nd marine aircraft wing, the 2d logistics group, and to the marine corps fleet readiness center, frc east. cherry point provides a steady flow of trained aviators, which is so critical in this very tumultuous time in the world today. established in 1942, cherry point has grown to become the united states' largest marine corps air station. this prestigious award is testament to the strong performance of our marines in various operational aspects, high-profile asset and project management, community engagement, innovation, administrative discipline, and unwavering teamwork. i commend the leadership of colonel brendan burks, as well as former xo colonel mike huber, as well as the fine men and women stationed there who justifiably earned this distinguished recognition. i am grateful for our brave servicemembers, as well as their families, who have sacrificed so much to protect us and this great nation. it is my honor to represent marine corps air station cherry point and its proud community, which strongly supports our troops. its unwavering support has played a pivotal role in the base's growth. at present time, there is close to $1 billion in marine corps construction going on at cherry point. mr. speaker, i congratulate our marines and the marine corps air station cherry point on a well-deserved recognition. may god bless all of the airmen and servicemembers serving there. semper fi. crisis at our border mr. murphy. mr. speaker, i rise today to talk a little bit about our border. on the first day of the presidency of joe biden, he did what no other nation's leader has ever done. he invited an invasion of our own country. in that decision, there has been close to 10 million illegal individuals coming in this country. more than 200 individuals have been caught on the terrorist watch list. no legislation is needed to fix this absolute disaster. kamala harris, the ``border czar,'' has done absolutely nothing. we are now facing a calamity of unrecognized proportion in this nation's history. today, the president could end this disaster by doing just a few things: end catch and release; cease the exploitation of parole authority; reinstate remain in mexico; expand expedited removal authority; and renew building the wall. the president has the authority today to stop this. he does not require legislation. he is shirking on his duty as president of the united states to end this crisis. ____________________